---
toc: true
layout: base
description: notes 
title: Unit 5 notes
---

# Unit 5 

## 5.1 Beneficial and Harmful Effects

### Benefits of our Project
1. Allows people to develop healthier food habits.
2. Can help people recovering from eating disorders.
3. Gives people with food sensitivites or allergies more dietary options.
</br>
</br>


### Harms of our Project
1. Could lead to some overly watching their diet.
2. Discourages eating from restaurants. If this program was used VERY widely could hurt small food businesses.
3. Privacy issues when entering personal information into site
</br>

### Talk about dopamine issues above. Real? Parent conspiracy? Anything that is impacting your personal study and success in High School?
1. Yes, the dopamine issue is real. Dopamine is the same neurotransmitter that is released in you body when you use drugs. That's how addiction is created. Your body requires more and more of that stimulant to reach that same level of dopamine from the first time. The same can be said for video games.
</br>
</br>

## 5.2 Digital Divide

### What are pros/cons on internet blockers at router and lack of admin password on lab machines at school?
1. How does someone empower themself in a digital world?
By creating contributions that advance the digital aspects of our world.
2. How does someone that is empowered help someone that is not empowered? Describe something you could do at Del Norte HS.
3. Is paper or red tape blocking digital empowerment? Are there such barriers at Del Norte? Elsewhere?
At a school, there are certain restrictions that just must be in place. In this case, the risk, student's using the internet inappropriately is much higher that the reward of digital empowerment.
</br>

## What concerns do you have personally about the digital divide? For yourself or for others.
The digital divide prevalent in our world takes away more opportunities from those who have less access to technology and overall make their lives harder. We can even see this at school, where if you don't have a smartphone you can't use the qr codes clubs use for google forms or websites.

## 5.3 Computing Bias
### Google “What age groups use Facebook” vs “… TikTok”? What does the data say? Is there purposeful exclusion in these platforms? Is it harmful? Should it be corrected? Is it good business?
Mostly the older generation uses Facebook while GenZ uses Tiktok. This is profitable for the individual companies as they are able to market goods to those specific groups.
### Why do virtual assistants have female voices? Amazon, Alexa Google, Apple Siri. Was this purposeful? Is it harmful? Should it be corrected? Is it good business?
I think it's connected to the idea that women are supposed to be traditionally be the "caretakers" so when a virtual asistant has a female voice it may make people feel like they are being taken care of. Which people may believe that women have a more soothing voice then men.
### Talk about an algorithm that influences your decisions, think about these companies (ie FAANG - Facebook, Amazon, Apple, Netflix, Google)
Netflix uses both user specific data and data from the general population, to keep users hooked on their platform. Like the "__% similar to your taste" category. 
### HP Computer Video: When not enough diverse data is used to train a program, it results in bias. In the HP video, they probably only used white faces when training their facial recognition program, so the program is unusable to any non-white person.

## 5.4 Crowdsourcing
### CompSci has 150 ish principles students. Describe a crowdsource idea and how you might initiate it in our environment?
Our project is about providing users with recipes. So, we could have a page where people are able to "like" or vote up/down each recipe. This would get data on the opinions APCS students have about recipes.
### What about Del Norte crowdsourcing? Could your project be better with crowdsourcing?
Del Norte has diverse individuals with different backgrounds and views. By using DNHS as our population, we can collect diverse data.
### What kind of data could you capture at N@tM to make evening interesting? Perhaps use this data to impress Teachers during finals week.
Our project is about providing users with recipes. So, we could have a page where people are able to "like" or vote up/down each recipe. This would get data on the opinions APCSP/APCSA students have about recipes.


## 5.5 Legal and Ethical Concerns

### When you create a GitHub repository it requests a license type. Review the license types in relationship to this Tech Talk and make some notes in your personal blog.


1. Creative Commons Zero v1.0 Universal
    - waives copyright interest in a work you’ve created and dedicates it to the world-wide public domain

2. Open Source MIT License
    - allows people to use code freely, and making+distributing closed source versions
        - closed source ---> so project on GitHub could be private
    - author can say credit needs to be given (could be just adding author's name at end)
    - 

3. Open Source GPL License
    - allowes people to do ALMOST anything with the code, except distributing closed source versions
        - open source ---> GitHub project must be public


### Summarize the discussions and personal analysis on Software Licenses/Options, Digital Rights, and other Legal and Ethical thoughts from this College Board topic.

1. Software Licenses/Options
    -  An author needs to determine a license. 
    - These questions should be asked when determinging which license should be chosen
        1. Do I want to waive default copyright in reuse?
        2. Do I want to allow derivative works or not?
        3. Do I want to require all derivative code to be shared?
2. Digital Rights
    - companies build DRM (Digital Rights Management) software to protect, play, and/or distribute content
3. Ethical Thoughts
    - We need to comply with the terms of licenses and cite sources in our own projects
    - Many companies try to sites bypass this, but get shut down because of illegalities

### Make a license for your personal (blog) and Team repositories for the CPT project. Be sure to have a license for both Team GitHub repositories (frontend/backend). Document license(s) you picked and why. FYI, frontend, since it is built on GitHub pages may come with a license and restrictions. Document in blog how team made license choice and process of update.

Our team choose to use the _______ license for our frontend (datapirates GitHub repository) and _______ for our backend (dpbackend GitHub repository). We decided on these licenses because

## 5.6

### Describe PII you have seen on project in CompSci Principles.
    - When you create a public GitHub repository, with you name attached to it

### What are your feelings about PII and your personal exposure?
    - It's always best to minimize your ouwn PII. The more personal information out there on the internet about you, the less safe you are. Digital footprints are also very key through life. When you have a job intervew often your digital footprint is examined.
### Describe good and bad passwords? What is another step that is used to assist in authentication.
    Good passwords have nothing significant about you in them (at least stuff that isn't obviously significant to you), are longer, have numbers and symbols, and are unique for each site. Bad passwords are the opposite, maybe they are short, only include your name...
    
### Try to describe Symmetric and Asymmetric encryption.
    - Symmetric: same key (a secret key) is used for encryption and decryption
    - Asummetric: different keys (one public key and one private key) is used for decryption than encryption

### Provide an example of encryption we used in AWS deployment.
    - When you set us a GitHub repository you need to generate a SSH key and GPG key (I think). The SSH is for authentication and the GPG is for signing tags and commits

### Describe a phishing scheme you have learned about the hard way. Describe some other phishing techniques.
    - I know people whose Instagram accounts have been hacked. Their accounts are stolen, somebody poses as them, and posts false information (links that give viruses...).
    - Lots of phone call ones where they'll say stuff about a car warranty, or a stolen credit card, or that you won a free cruise, and then they'll ask for your ssn or credit card number :)